# Hardware

This is the landing page for all hardware development.

This page describes the directory structure, presents the comportable hardware IP block dashboard, lists supported CPU cores, and lists supported top-level designs.

## Directory organization

Hardware development happens at both the top-level and the block-level.

Top-level designs serve as reference designs instantiating a specific combination and connection of hardware IP blocks.
The present top-level designs -- Earlgrey, Darjeeling, and Englishbreakfast -- are found in `top_earlgrey/`, `top_darjeeling/`, and `top_englishbreakfast/` respectively.
These top-level designs are by no means fixed; they serve as suggested starting points for further development and experimentation.

Hardware IP blocks can be top-agnostic or top-specific, and the organization of this directory reflects this distinction.
The `ip/` directory contains blocks that are generically useful to any top.
Primitive libraries (e.g. `prim_fifo`) are found in `ip/prim/`.
Technology-specific primitive libraries (e.g. FPGA-specific specialized primitives) also belong to `ip/prim_*/`.
Hardware IP blocks that are specific to a given top belong in that top's `top_*/ip/` directory.

Some hardware IP blocks require parameterization beyond the capabilities of ordinary SystemVerilog parameters.
To carry out parameterization, these IP blocks' files are written in Mako templates and are indicated with filenames ending in `*.tpl`.
These hardware IP blocks are said to be "templatized".
Templatized hardware IP blocks are found in the `ip_templates/` directory.
Prior to compilation, the templates for these hardware IP blocks are filled for a given top and copied in that top's `top_*/ip_autogen/` directory.

For a more complete description of the remaining directories, see [Directory Structure](../doc/contributing/directory_structure.md)

## Comportable hardware IP block dashboard

The following autogenerated table contains links to design/verification specifications for each hardware IP block.
See the [Hardware Development Stages](../doc/contributing/hw/development_stages.md) for a description of the hardware stages and how they are determined.

{{#dashboard comportable }}

## Processor cores

### Ibex

The Ibex core (at `ip_templates/rv_core_ibex/`) is a 32-bit RISC-V CPU core.
Ibex is an in-order, 2- or 3-stage (configurable) pipelined processor that can support the compressed and bit manipulation instruction set extensions (RV32IMCB).

  * [User manual](https://ibex-core.readthedocs.io/en/latest)
  * [DV document](https://ibex-core.readthedocs.io/en/latest/03_reference/verification.html)

## Top-level designs

### Earlgrey top-level

* [Datasheet](./top_earlgrey/doc/datasheet.md)
* [Specification](./top_earlgrey/doc/design/README.md)
* [Design Verification](./top_earlgrey/dv/README.md)

### Earlgrey-specific comportable IPs

{{#dashboard top_earlgrey }}

### Darjeeling top-level

* [Datasheet](./top_darjeeling/doc/datasheet.md)
